why do we look the way we look most of
it's down to dear old planet earth
it's atmosphere gravity that kind of
stuff
when you go on a week-long beach getaway
you get a tan
basic but what about living on a whole
other planet
one astronaut spent a whole year living
on the international space station
zero gravity means no healthy pressure
on your body
so his bones got weaker so did his
muscles
it also gave him more space between his
vertebrae so
he got a bit taller and that's only a
year
the more time you spend at the beach the
darker your tan
gets so what if we move to
mars the first major change you might
notice
after a couple hundred years is your
brand new skeleton
gravity on mars is much lower than on
earth
so your muscles and bones would probably
shrink
not great for surviving on a new planet
gravity would make us feel our weight
differently
if you weighed 150 pounds on earth you'd
only feel like you weighed about 50
pounds on mars
you'd need to eat more to get stronger
and bigger to make up for mars's weak
gravity
sweet time to grow some larger and
stronger bones
organs muscles everything
there'd be one more dramatic change your
largest
organ your skin it's the most important
barrier that protects you from
everything germs wind uv light
looking totally creepy you name it it
does it
you might just need a whole new skin how
do you feel about
orange sorry people green skin is
totally sci-fi
here's the deal carotenoids offer quite
a nice protection against uv light
that's the stuff you find in carrots
sweet potatoes bell peppers tomatoes
pumpkins a mars farmer's market could
make a fortune
the more of these veggies you eat the
more orange your skin's going to get
if you followed a special diet and wore
high-tech gear chances are
one day living on mars might be totally
normal
living on mercury would be really tough
it's the closest planet to the sun
and it's definitely hotter than earth
but weirdly
not hotter than venus it's really hot
during the day
about 800 degrees but at night it drops
to negative 290.
days on mercury are kind of crazy you
know when you finish the day but you
didn't really get a lot done problem
solved
move to mercury a day on this planet
lasts about
58 earth days that means you'd have a
lot of time to get ready for bed
my guess though you'd probably get kind
of bored
one excellent solution somehow become
made of metal
like titanium nickel or platinum those
guys can handle extreme conditions
life on venus would be way worse than
mercury or mars
pressure might be a tiny issue you'd
probably have one long never-ending
headache
standing on venus is like being 3000
feet under water
oh and that thing we need every moment
of the day chocolate
i mean air there's not a lot of that
floating around on venus
there's carbon dioxide everywhere and
the planet's surface is completely dry
that means it's going to be hot 870
degrees hot there are a few species on
earth that can survive the boiling point
of water
and maybe if they mutated somehow they'd
survive
venus's crazy heat 266 degrees is the
record so far
set by a species of microbes so
get ready for an epic body
transformation
want to live on venus you'd probably
have to turn into a tiny microbe just to
survive
luckily venus's atmosphere has phosphine
which isn't great for humans but
microbes just love it
but since you're not a microbe not yet
anyway
you'd need to wear special gear to
control the pressure
and feed you air it's not looking good
[Music]
maybe it'd be easier on jupiter yeah
no it's got no solid land
this planet's made of hydrogen and
helium and is known as a gas
giant unlike saturn you'd probably end
up just floating around on it
it's like a giant cloud and if you ever
managed to land
it'd be like walking through a super
thick fog
temperatures fluctuate a lot here it's
freezing on the surface
and the atmosphere can be super hot
below the surface
we don't really even know if you lived
on jupiter
there'd be no spoken languages the gas
planet absorbs radio waves
so even if you could speak no one would
hear you anyway
and there'd be no music so no dance
parties
what's the point people would have to
communicate in sign language
great but it's not the atmosphere on
jupiter
is wild all kinds of winds and gas
clouds
you probably wouldn't even be able to
see anything
so that's not gonna happen still jupiter
is awesome to look at
it's so big that it can fit all the
other planets in our solar system inside
it
with room to spare
a trip to saturn will set you back about
a decade
and it'd be a big old waste of time
saturn's mostly made up of layers of gas
it has no solid surface so farming
building
or any other normal earth activities are
out of the question
before landing on saturn itself you'd
probably want to explore those iconic
rings around it
you'd fail though because the rings are
made of millions of ice sprinkles
floating in space
that's pretty hard to walk on you might
have thought that saturn was going to be
a good fit for you
some layers of this gas giant sphere
actually have
quite a nice temperature if you dive
into saturn
you'll get to a layer with liquid
molecules and a cool 32 degrees
that's like northern canada alaska
sweden
except that you can't walk on it anyway
it's only one minor layer and the rest
of the planet is insanely cold
so i guess if you still want to live on
saturn you've got some work to do
no biggie and just gotta turn into a
snowball or something
[Music]
what about uranus time is kind of weird
on uranus
so if you're out that way looking for a
nice vacation spot
definitely choose this planet a two-week
getaway on earth
lasts three years on uranus there's even
a c
if you're up for a beach vacation the
only problem
is that it's made of ammonia that gross
smelling stuff they use for cleaning
but watch out where you land if you get
it wrong you might end up spending a
whole year without any sun
how would you change if you had to spend
a whole year in the freezing dark uranus
winter
we'd need bigger eyes to see in the dark
plus
more of that thicker skin to keep the
cold out we might even develop a new
hearing system
like dolphins have neptune
it's another gas planet but scientists
think there's probably a dense core
inside
if you took the plunge to live on
neptune you'd probably turn into a space
reptile or cosmic fish
endlessly floating around on the surface
gravity on neptune is just a little bit
stronger than on earth
still it'd be really hard to stay in one
place
the wind there is super strong you'd
have to be much heavier to resist it
time to eat again but this planet's
really impossible to live on scientists
don't even want to send another
spacecraft there
welcome to pluto freezing cold tiny
and super far away doesn't sound too
exciting
it's even smaller than our moon it would
be so hard to stay on the planet
no more trampoline parks people you'd
probably have to build yourself a huge
machine
that would spin you around sort of a
fake gravity machine
still you try spinning around all day
you'd need a brand new nervous system to
avoid feeling queasy all the time
but pluto's not all bad there's a liquid
water ocean beneath the surface
and ice mountains if you got yourself a
highly trained crew and a bunch of
expensive gear
and regular supplies from earth nah
too much hassle
spaghettification wonder if you can
choose your own sauce
it's actually something you might
experience if you ever tried to live in
a black hole
it's the process of squeezing objects
like you
into long thin cosmic strips so
good news you'll get much taller bad
news
you'll be thinner than a single human
hair
you